docs/integrate/python/fastapi.md, before:

# FastAPI

[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is one of the fastest-growing Python web framework. It features impressive performance and top-notch developer experience. Actually, the Fief server itself is implemented with FastAPI!

The Fief Python client provides tools to help you integrate Fief authentication in your FastAPI project. Let's see how to use them!

## Install the client

Install the Fief client with the optional FastAPI dependencies:

```bash
pip install "fief-client[fastapi]"
```

## API example

!!! question "This is for you if..."
    - [x] Your FastAPI backend will work as a pure REST API.
    - [x] You have a separate frontend, like a JavaScript or mobile app, that'll take care of the OAuth2 flow.

!!! abstract "Prerequisites"
    - [x] Check that the following [Redirect URI](../../getting-started/clients.md#redirect-uris) is allowed on your Fief Client: `http://localhost:8000/docs/oauth2-redirect`

In this first example, we'll leverage the interactive documentation generated by FastAPI to perform the OAuth2 authentication. The goal here is just to show you **how to protect your API route with a Fief access token**.

```py title="app.py"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/api.py"
```

1. **Fief client instantiation**

    As we showed in the [standard Python section](./index.md), we instantiate here a Fief client here with the base tenant URL and client credentials.

    Notice here that we use the `FiefAsync` class. FastAPI being an ASGI framework, it's always nice to take advantage of `asyncio` capabilities.

2. **OpenAPI security scheme**

    FastAPI uses those security schemes to generate an interactive documentation showing the right interface to authenticate with the API. We use here a standard OAuth2 interface.

3. **Fief helper for FastAPI**

    This is the helper doing the tedious work for you with FastAPI. All it needs is an instance of the Fief client and the scheme.

4. **`authenticated` dependency**

    This is where the magic happens: in pure FastAPI style, `FiefAuth` gives you a `authenticated` dependency to check for the access token and optionally for required scopes.

    If everything goes well, you'll get a dictionary containing the ID of the user, the list of allowed scopes and the raw access token.

And that's about it!

### Test it

You can run this example just like you would do for any FastAPI app:

```bash
uvicorn app:app
```

Open [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs) to access the interactive documentation.

![FastAPI interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-index.png)

Let's try first the `/user` endpoint:

![Unauthenticated request from the interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-unauthenticated.png)

We get an 401 error! That's expected: **we are not authenticated yet**!

Let's fix that: click on the **Authorize** button to start the authentication process. You'll need to provide your client ID and secret and select the scopes.

![Authorize from interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-authorize.png)

Click on the **Authorize** button: you are redirected to the Fief login page.

![Fief login page](/assets/images/fief-login.png)

Upon successful login, you will be redirected back to the interactive documentation: a valid access token has been generated!

![Authenticated interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-authenticated.png)

You can now try the `/user` endpoint to check the result:

![Authenticated request from the interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-request.png)

Notice how the interactive documentation passed the access token in the `Authorization` header of the request!

Besides, the response does contain the user ID, the list of allowed scopes and the access token itself.

### Checking for scopes

Building on the previous example, you can make your endpoint require the access token to be granted a list of **scopes**. Simply add this list of scopes as a keyword parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="26"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/scope.py"
```

If one of the required scope is missing on the access token, a `403 Forbidden` error will automatically be returned.

### Checking for permissions

Similary, you can make your endpoint require the user to be granted a list of [**permissions**](../../getting-started/access-control.md). Simply add this list of permissions as a keyword parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="26"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/permissions.py"
```

If one of the required permission is missing on ther user, a `403 Forbidden` error will automatically be returned.

### Optional user

Sometimes, you need to have a route retrieve the user if there is one authenticated, but **still work** if there is none. To do this, you can leverage the `optional` parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="28"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/optional.py"
```

## Web application example

!!! question "This is for you if..."
    - [x] Your FastAPI backend will render HTML pages.
    - [x] Your application is intended to be used in a browser.

!!! abstract "Prerequisites"
    - [x] Allow the following [Redirect URI](../../getting-started/clients.md#redirect-uris) on your Fief Client: `http://localhost:8000/auth-callback`

--8<-- "reusables/web-application-motivation.md"

```py title="app.py"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/web.py"
```

1. **We customize the `FiefAuth` helper to fit our needs**

    The base class is implemented with an API scenario in mind. Nevertheless, it's designed in a way you can customize its behavior when the user is not authenticated or has not the required scope.

    That's what'll do with the `get_unauthorized_response`.

2. **We build the redirect URL**

    This points to our `/auth-callback` route that we define below.

3. **We generate an authorization URL on the Fief server**

    Thanks to the `auth_url` method on the Fief client, we can automatically generate the authorization URL on the Fief server.

4. **We build a redirect response**

    By setting a status code in the 3XX range, we tell the browser that it should redirect the user to another URL, specified in the `Location` header.

    You can read more about HTTP redirections on the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections).

5. **This doesn't change from the previous example**

    The `FiefAsync` client is always at the heart of the integration 😉

6. **We use a scheme expecting a cookie**

    Contrary to the previous examples, we expect the access token to be passed in a cookie. Thus, we use a dedicated scheme for that.

    Notice that we set the name of this cookie through the `SESSION_COOKIE_NAME` constant.

    Besides, we set the `auto_error` argument to `False`. It tells FastAPI user to bypass its built-in error response if the cookie is not present: we have our own logic to handle this.

7. **We use our custom `CustomFiefAuth` class**

    Of course, now that we overloaded the behavior of this helper class, we shouldn't forget to actually use it!

8. **We implement an `/auth-callback` route**

    This is the route that'll take care of exchanging the authorization code with a fresh access token and save it in a cookie.

    Notice that we set its `name` parameter: this is how we can generate its URL automatically with the `request.url_for` method.

9.  **We generate an access token**

    We finish the OAuth2 flow by exchanging the authorization code with a fresh access token.


10. **We build a redirection to the `/protected` route**

    The user will now be correctly authenticated to our web application. Thus, we can redirect them to a protected page.


11. **We build a new cookie containing the access token**

    The response will contain a `Set-Cookie` header instructing the browser to save the access token in its memory. This method allows us to configure each properties of the cookie.

    You can read more about HTTP cookies on the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies).

12. **Set the cookie as `HTTPOnly`**

    For such sensitive values, it's strongly recommended to set the cookie as `HTTPOnly`. It means that it won't be possible to read its value from JavaScript, reducing potential attacks.

13. **Set the cookie as secure in production**

    For such sensitive values, it's strongly recommended to set the cookie as `Secure`. It tells the browser to send the cookie **only on HTTPS (SSL)** connection, reducing the risk of the access token to be stolen by a attacker between the client and the server.

    However, in a local environment, you usually don't serve your application with SSL. That's why we set it to `False` in this example. A common approach to handle this is to have an environment variable to control this parameter, so you can disable it in local and enable it in production.

14. **Use the `current_user` dependency**

    This time, we use the `current_user` dependency instead of `authenticated`. Under the hood, it'll stil call `authenticated` and check if the cookie is available in the request and proceed if everything goes well. However, it'll return you a [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary containing the data of the user.

    If the request is not authenticated, our custom `get_unauthorized_response` will be called and the user will be redirected to the Fief login page.

That's it! If you run this application and go to [http://localhost:8000/protected](http://localhost:8000/protected), you'll be redirected to the Fief login page and experience the authentication flow before getting back to this route with a proper authentication cookie.

!!! warning "Read the next example for a more optimal implementation"
    In this example, the user information is **not cached**. For the performance of your application, we highly recommend you to read the next example.

!!! tip "`current_user` can also check for scope and permissions"
    In a similar way as we shown in the [API example](#checking-for-scopes), you can also require the access token to be granted a list of **scopes** or the user to be granted a list of **permissions**.

    ```py
    async def protected(
        user: FiefUserInfo = Depends(auth.current_user(scope=["openid", "required_scope"])),
    ):
        ...
    ```

    ```py
    async def protected(
        user: FiefUserInfo = Depends(auth.current_user(permissions=["castles:read"])),
    ):
        ...
    ```

!!! tip "You can also optionally require the user"
    In a similar way as we shown in the [API example](#optional-user), you can leverage the `optional` parameter to make the route work even if no user is authenticated.

    ```py
    @app.get("/protected", name="protected")
    async def protected(
        user: Optional[FiefUserInfo] = Depends(auth.current_user(optional=True)),
    ):
        if user is None:
            return HTMLResponse(
                f"<h1>You are an anonymous user.</h1>"
            )
        return HTMLResponse(
            f"<h1>You are authenticated. Your user email is {user['email']}</h1>"
        )
    ```

### Caching user information

In the previous example, we didn't set up cache for the user information. It means that **everytime** we hit the `/protected` route, the **Fief API will be called** to get the data. Obviously, this is not very optimal.

Let's fix this! Fortunately, the client provides you useful tools to help you with this. Building upon the previous example, let's see how we can cache user information.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="23-31 34 37-38 50 60-62 65 76"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/web_userinfo_cache.py"
```

1. **We start by implementing an helper class to store the user information somewhere**

    The implementation is completely up-to-you and could be something rather complex, like using a Redis server to cache this information.

    We'll see that it expects you to implement two methods for working correctly with `FiefAuth`.

2. **We store the data in memory using a dictionary**

    This is a very simple approach that will just store the data in memory. If your server is rebooted, the cache will be lost.

    It can work quite well when starting, but you'll probably need more robust approaches in the long run. The good thing is that you'll only need to change this class when the time comes!

3. **We implement the `.get` method**

    This is the first compulsory method you have to implement in the class. It accepts an user ID as argument and expects you to return a cached [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary or `None` if not available.

    Here, we simply read from our dictionary.

4. **We implement the `.set` method**

    This is the second and last compulsory method you have to implement in the class. It accepts an user ID and a [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary as arguments. There, you'll need to store this data in cache.

    Here, we simply set the user information into our dictionary.

5. **We instantiate `MemoryUserInfoCache` globally**

    In order to have a global memory cache, we instantiate our class in the global context, at the same time of our FastAPI app.

    This way, the dictionary will be initialized at the same time our app is launched.

    Depending on your implementation, this may not be needed. We could also imagine to have a fresh instance every time we use it. This is typically the case when using database sessions for example.

6. **We define a callable dependency to get our class**

    This pattern is typical of FastAPI. With a callable dependency, we are able to tell FastAPI to automatically instantiate objects, potentially needing other sub-dependencies as well.

    This is especially handy if you already have a dependency taking care of returning you a database connection or a session object for example.

    In our example here, we don't have any complex dependency, so we can just directly return the `memory_userinfo_cache` instance.

7. **We add the `get_userinfo_cache` argument to `CustomFiefAuth`**

    This is an optional keyword argument that basically tells `FiefAuth` to use the caching class returned by `get_userinfo_cache` when you want to get the user information.

    That's why it's important to strictly follow the methods signature presented above: `FiefAuth` will call them inside its logic.

8. **We add `memory_userinfo_cache` as a dependency to `auth_callback`**

    When a user has successfully authenticated, we do not only get the access token: we also get an [ID token](../../getting-started/oauth2.md#access-token-and-id-token) which already contains the user information.

    Hence, we'll take this opportunity to store it in our cache!

    Since we defined it as a callable dependency, we can directly use `get_memory_userinfo_cache` inside our route to use it.

9. **We cache the user information**

    The ID token is automatically decoded by [`fief.auth_callback`](./index.md#auth_callback) method.

    Thus, we just have to use our cache to store it!

10. **The `current_user` dependency doesn't change**

    Nothing changes here! Now that we have set a `get_userinfo_cache` dependency, `current_user` will automatically use it to return you the user information.

    If it's not present in cache, it'll hit the Fief API.

    Note that you can use `auth.current_user(refresh=True)` if you need to always retrieve fresh data from the Fief API.

That's it! Now, we won't retrieve user information from the Fief API at each request. Typically, we'll set it in cache when the user authenticates and it'll be used during the lifetime of the session.

Commit message:

Add callout to the FastAPI API example to change the base URL on the OpenAPI security schema
See https://github.com/fief-dev/fief/discussions/68 for background

docs/integrate/python/fastapi.md, after:

# FastAPI

[FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) is one of the fastest-growing Python web framework. It features impressive performance and top-notch developer experience. Actually, the Fief server itself is implemented with FastAPI!

The Fief Python client provides tools to help you integrate Fief authentication in your FastAPI project. Let's see how to use them!

## Install the client

Install the Fief client with the optional FastAPI dependencies:

```bash
pip install "fief-client[fastapi]"
```

## API example

!!! question "This is for you if..."
    - [x] Your FastAPI backend will work as a pure REST API.
    - [x] You have a separate frontend, like a JavaScript or mobile app, that'll take care of the OAuth2 flow.

!!! abstract "Prerequisites"
    - [x] Check that the following [Redirect URI](../../getting-started/clients.md#redirect-uris) is allowed on your Fief Client: `http://localhost:8000/docs/oauth2-redirect`

In this first example, we'll leverage the interactive documentation generated by FastAPI to perform the OAuth2 authentication. The goal here is just to show you **how to protect your API route with a Fief access token**.

```py title="app.py"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/api.py"
```

1. **Fief client instantiation**

    As we showed in the [standard Python section](./index.md), we instantiate here a Fief client here with the base tenant URL and client credentials.

    Notice here that we use the `FiefAsync` class. FastAPI being an ASGI framework, it's always nice to take advantage of `asyncio` capabilities.

2. **OpenAPI security scheme**

    FastAPI uses those security schemes to generate an interactive documentation showing the right interface to authenticate with the API. We use here a standard OAuth2 interface.

3. **Don't forget to replace with your base URL here**

    This is to tell the interactive documentation where to redirect you upon authorization.

4. **Don't forget to replace with your base URL here**

    This is to tell the interactive documentation where to ask for a fresh token after successful login.

5. **Fief helper for FastAPI**

    This is the helper doing the tedious work for you with FastAPI. All it needs is an instance of the Fief client and the scheme.

6. **`authenticated` dependency**

    This is where the magic happens: in pure FastAPI style, `FiefAuth` gives you a `authenticated` dependency to check for the access token and optionally for required scopes.

    If everything goes well, you'll get a dictionary containing the ID of the user, the list of allowed scopes and the raw access token.

And that's about it!

### Test it

You can run this example just like you would do for any FastAPI app:

```bash
uvicorn app:app
```

Open [http://localhost:8000/docs](http://localhost:8000/docs) to access the interactive documentation.

![FastAPI interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-index.png)

Let's try first the `/user` endpoint:

![Unauthenticated request from the interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-unauthenticated.png)

We get an 401 error! That's expected: **we are not authenticated yet**!

Let's fix that: click on the **Authorize** button to start the authentication process. You'll need to provide your client ID and secret and select the scopes.

![Authorize from interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-authorize.png)

Click on the **Authorize** button: you are redirected to the Fief login page.

![Fief login page](/assets/images/fief-login.png)

Upon successful login, you will be redirected back to the interactive documentation: a valid access token has been generated!

![Authenticated interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-authenticated.png)

You can now try the `/user` endpoint to check the result:

![Authenticated request from the interactive documentation](/assets/images/swagger-request.png)

Notice how the interactive documentation passed the access token in the `Authorization` header of the request!

Besides, the response does contain the user ID, the list of allowed scopes and the access token itself.

### Checking for scopes

Building on the previous example, you can make your endpoint require the access token to be granted a list of **scopes**. Simply add this list of scopes as a keyword parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="26"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/scope.py"
```

If one of the required scope is missing on the access token, a `403 Forbidden` error will automatically be returned.

### Checking for permissions

Similary, you can make your endpoint require the user to be granted a list of [**permissions**](../../getting-started/access-control.md). Simply add this list of permissions as a keyword parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="26"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/permissions.py"
```

If one of the required permission is missing on ther user, a `403 Forbidden` error will automatically be returned.

### Optional user

Sometimes, you need to have a route retrieve the user if there is one authenticated, but **still work** if there is none. To do this, you can leverage the `optional` parameter of the `authenticated` dependency.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="28"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/optional.py"
```

## Web application example

!!! question "This is for you if..."
    - [x] Your FastAPI backend will render HTML pages.
    - [x] Your application is intended to be used in a browser.

!!! abstract "Prerequisites"
    - [x] Allow the following [Redirect URI](../../getting-started/clients.md#redirect-uris) on your Fief Client: `http://localhost:8000/auth-callback`

--8<-- "reusables/web-application-motivation.md"

```py title="app.py"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/web.py"
```

1. **We customize the `FiefAuth` helper to fit our needs**

    The base class is implemented with an API scenario in mind. Nevertheless, it's designed in a way you can customize its behavior when the user is not authenticated or has not the required scope.

    That's what'll do with the `get_unauthorized_response`.

2. **We build the redirect URL**

    This points to our `/auth-callback` route that we define below.

3. **We generate an authorization URL on the Fief server**

    Thanks to the `auth_url` method on the Fief client, we can automatically generate the authorization URL on the Fief server.

4. **We build a redirect response**

    By setting a status code in the 3XX range, we tell the browser that it should redirect the user to another URL, specified in the `Location` header.

    You can read more about HTTP redirections on the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections).

5. **This doesn't change from the previous example**

    The `FiefAsync` client is always at the heart of the integration 😉

6. **We use a scheme expecting a cookie**

    Contrary to the previous examples, we expect the access token to be passed in a cookie. Thus, we use a dedicated scheme for that.

    Notice that we set the name of this cookie through the `SESSION_COOKIE_NAME` constant.

    Besides, we set the `auto_error` argument to `False`. It tells FastAPI user to bypass its built-in error response if the cookie is not present: we have our own logic to handle this.

7. **We use our custom `CustomFiefAuth` class**

    Of course, now that we overloaded the behavior of this helper class, we shouldn't forget to actually use it!

8. **We implement an `/auth-callback` route**

    This is the route that'll take care of exchanging the authorization code with a fresh access token and save it in a cookie.

    Notice that we set its `name` parameter: this is how we can generate its URL automatically with the `request.url_for` method.

9.  **We generate an access token**

    We finish the OAuth2 flow by exchanging the authorization code with a fresh access token.


10. **We build a redirection to the `/protected` route**

    The user will now be correctly authenticated to our web application. Thus, we can redirect them to a protected page.


11. **We build a new cookie containing the access token**

    The response will contain a `Set-Cookie` header instructing the browser to save the access token in its memory. This method allows us to configure each properties of the cookie.

    You can read more about HTTP cookies on the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies).

12. **Set the cookie as `HTTPOnly`**

    For such sensitive values, it's strongly recommended to set the cookie as `HTTPOnly`. It means that it won't be possible to read its value from JavaScript, reducing potential attacks.

13. **Set the cookie as secure in production**

    For such sensitive values, it's strongly recommended to set the cookie as `Secure`. It tells the browser to send the cookie **only on HTTPS (SSL)** connection, reducing the risk of the access token to be stolen by a attacker between the client and the server.

    However, in a local environment, you usually don't serve your application with SSL. That's why we set it to `False` in this example. A common approach to handle this is to have an environment variable to control this parameter, so you can disable it in local and enable it in production.

14. **Use the `current_user` dependency**

    This time, we use the `current_user` dependency instead of `authenticated`. Under the hood, it'll stil call `authenticated` and check if the cookie is available in the request and proceed if everything goes well. However, it'll return you a [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary containing the data of the user.

    If the request is not authenticated, our custom `get_unauthorized_response` will be called and the user will be redirected to the Fief login page.

That's it! If you run this application and go to [http://localhost:8000/protected](http://localhost:8000/protected), you'll be redirected to the Fief login page and experience the authentication flow before getting back to this route with a proper authentication cookie.

!!! warning "Read the next example for a more optimal implementation"
    In this example, the user information is **not cached**. For the performance of your application, we highly recommend you to read the next example.

!!! tip "`current_user` can also check for scope and permissions"
    In a similar way as we shown in the [API example](#checking-for-scopes), you can also require the access token to be granted a list of **scopes** or the user to be granted a list of **permissions**.

    ```py
    async def protected(
        user: FiefUserInfo = Depends(auth.current_user(scope=["openid", "required_scope"])),
    ):
        ...
    ```

    ```py
    async def protected(
        user: FiefUserInfo = Depends(auth.current_user(permissions=["castles:read"])),
    ):
        ...
    ```

!!! tip "You can also optionally require the user"
    In a similar way as we shown in the [API example](#optional-user), you can leverage the `optional` parameter to make the route work even if no user is authenticated.

    ```py
    @app.get("/protected", name="protected")
    async def protected(
        user: Optional[FiefUserInfo] = Depends(auth.current_user(optional=True)),
    ):
        if user is None:
            return HTMLResponse(
                f"<h1>You are an anonymous user.</h1>"
            )
        return HTMLResponse(
            f"<h1>You are authenticated. Your user email is {user['email']}</h1>"
        )
    ```

### Caching user information

In the previous example, we didn't set up cache for the user information. It means that **everytime** we hit the `/protected` route, the **Fief API will be called** to get the data. Obviously, this is not very optimal.

Let's fix this! Fortunately, the client provides you useful tools to help you with this. Building upon the previous example, let's see how we can cache user information.

```py title="app.py" hl_lines="23-31 34 37-38 50 60-62 65 76"
--8<-- "examples/python/fastapi/web_userinfo_cache.py"
```

1. **We start by implementing an helper class to store the user information somewhere**

    The implementation is completely up-to-you and could be something rather complex, like using a Redis server to cache this information.

    We'll see that it expects you to implement two methods for working correctly with `FiefAuth`.

2. **We store the data in memory using a dictionary**

    This is a very simple approach that will just store the data in memory. If your server is rebooted, the cache will be lost.

    It can work quite well when starting, but you'll probably need more robust approaches in the long run. The good thing is that you'll only need to change this class when the time comes!

3. **We implement the `.get` method**

    This is the first compulsory method you have to implement in the class. It accepts an user ID as argument and expects you to return a cached [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary or `None` if not available.

    Here, we simply read from our dictionary.

4. **We implement the `.set` method**

    This is the second and last compulsory method you have to implement in the class. It accepts an user ID and a [`FiefUserInfo`](./index.md#fiefuserinfo) dictionary as arguments. There, you'll need to store this data in cache.

    Here, we simply set the user information into our dictionary.

5. **We instantiate `MemoryUserInfoCache` globally**

    In order to have a global memory cache, we instantiate our class in the global context, at the same time of our FastAPI app.

    This way, the dictionary will be initialized at the same time our app is launched.

    Depending on your implementation, this may not be needed. We could also imagine to have a fresh instance every time we use it. This is typically the case when using database sessions for example.

6. **We define a callable dependency to get our class**

    This pattern is typical of FastAPI. With a callable dependency, we are able to tell FastAPI to automatically instantiate objects, potentially needing other sub-dependencies as well.

    This is especially handy if you already have a dependency taking care of returning you a database connection or a session object for example.

    In our example here, we don't have any complex dependency, so we can just directly return the `memory_userinfo_cache` instance.

7. **We add the `get_userinfo_cache` argument to `CustomFiefAuth`**

    This is an optional keyword argument that basically tells `FiefAuth` to use the caching class returned by `get_userinfo_cache` when you want to get the user information.

    That's why it's important to strictly follow the methods signature presented above: `FiefAuth` will call them inside its logic.

8. **We add `memory_userinfo_cache` as a dependency to `auth_callback`**

    When a user has successfully authenticated, we do not only get the access token: we also get an [ID token](../../getting-started/oauth2.md#access-token-and-id-token) which already contains the user information.

    Hence, we'll take this opportunity to store it in our cache!

    Since we defined it as a callable dependency, we can directly use `get_memory_userinfo_cache` inside our route to use it.

9. **We cache the user information**

    The ID token is automatically decoded by [`fief.auth_callback`](./index.md#auth_callback) method.

    Thus, we just have to use our cache to store it!

10. **The `current_user` dependency doesn't change**

    Nothing changes here! Now that we have set a `get_userinfo_cache` dependency, `current_user` will automatically use it to return you the user information.

    If it's not present in cache, it'll hit the Fief API.

    Note that you can use `auth.current_user(refresh=True)` if you need to always retrieve fresh data from the Fief API.

That's it! Now, we won't retrieve user information from the Fief API at each request. Typically, we'll set it in cache when the user authenticates and it'll be used during the lifetime of the session.
